README     B L U E
Apr. 2001
version 1.0.2 : Mar. 2002
                


Blue is a card game.
I got the idea from a test program of the ncurses library, named "blue".
That game had one major "flaw": it was meant to demonstrate the library
not to be interesting as a game in itself.
So i changed a little bit of the rules and made it into what might be 
considered an interesting game, i.e., a game you have to think to get 
to the solution.



R U L E S 

The cards are laid out in four rows of 13 cards each.
The aces are moved to the left of the rows; one ace per row,
doesn't matter which.
In fact before you begin to move the cards around you can switch 
the ace positions among themselves.

The purpose of the game is to put all the cards for each suit 
in a row starting from the ace, in ascending order.

A card can be moved to an empty slot if one of the following two conditions is
met:
  - the card to the left is of the same suit and one less in value; 
  - the card to the right is of the same suit and one more in value. 

Therefore kings are no good as far as putting something to their right.
The aces cannot be moved (excpet for switching their positions before
moving any other card).



START OF "BLUE"

Type "blue" to play a game.
Type "blue -s yourSeed" to play a game with cards shuffled with 
      srand(yourSeed).
Type "blue -f filename" to load a game stored in file "filename".



S T R A T E G Y 

Getting the game done requires a good amount of planning ahead.
I call this "strategy".

Essentially it aims at organizing the cards in runs of the same
suit and increasing value, beginning with a card in the layout, so that 
the runs fit all together.

The game is then played by arranging the cards according to the strategy,
and then moving them to their final positions.

The interface lets you organize your strategy by drawing the runs
over the cards of the layout. Click on the the base card and drag up to 
the card you want to extend the run, either to the right or to the left.
If you go too far the run is not taken in.
If you (partly) overwrite an existing run it is (partly) cancelled.
You can erase a card mark in a run by double clicking on the card.
A single click makes a line above the card.
You can start a run from an ace.

The runs are coloured differently according to the suit.
The suit colors are shown on the top.

Essentially by doing the strategy you organize the way you are going to
play, ie, to move the cards.



P L A Y I N G  ON THE XWINDOW

Playing is just moving the cards according to the rules of the game.
You move a card by drag-n-drop: press a mouse button on the card
you want to move and release it on the empty place where you want to
move it. 
While in "Play" mode, a double-click moves the card to the only
allowed place, or just indicates two positions in case there are 
two allowed places.
(Two successive clicks are considered as a double click if the 
ButtonRelease of the second click is within 400 milliseconds 
of the first ButtonRelease.)



M E N U   B U T T O N S 

You can toggle at any time between "Strategy" mode and "Play" mode
by pressing the button on the menu bar on the top.  
But you cannot swap aces once you have made a card move.

The history buttons "Backward" and "Forward" let you go back and forth
in the moves.

"Save" will save the current game: the original layout, history of
card moves, and current status of the window.

Finally, "New game" will start a fresh new game, and "Restart" will
restart the current game (you will not lose your strategy).



Hope you like and enjoy it.

marco <marco_corvi@geocities.com>
& Kyungmi<kyungmi_lim@geocities.yahoo.com>


